+++
title = "Decreased expression of NMDA receptor-associated proteins in frontal cortex of elderly patients with schizophrenia"
date = "2009-06-02"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["A. J. Funk", "G. Rumbaugh", "V. Harotunian", "R. E. McCullumsmith", "J. H. Meador-Woodruff"]
publication = "In: Neuroreport, (20), 11, _pp. 1019-22_, https://doi.org/10.1097/WNR.0b013e32832d30d9, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19483657"
abstract = "Converging evidence suggests too few activation-ready N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor complexes in the postsynaptic density in schizophrenia. Postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD95), Synaptic GTPase-activating protein (SynGAP), and Multiple PDZ domain protein (MUPP1) are integral components of the NMDA receptor signaling complex, and help facilitate signaling, trafficking, and stabilization. We hypothesized that deficits involving these molecules may contribute to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. To test our hypothesis, we measured protein expression of PSD95, SynGAP, and MUPP1 in the anterior cingulate cortex and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. We found decreased PSD95 expression in the anterior cingulate cortex. Antipsychotic medication analyses showed decreased SynGAP expression in the anterior cingulate cortex in patients off medication when analyzed against our comparison group. These data suggest that NMDA receptor complex formation, localization, and downstream signaling may be abnormal in schizophrenia."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
