+++
title = "Endosomal trafficking of AMPA receptors in frontal cortex of elderly patients with schizophrenia"
date = "2011-05-18"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["J. C. Hammond", "R. E. McCullumsmith", "V. Haroutunian", "J. H. Meador-Woodruff"]
publication = "In: Schizophr Res, (130), 1-3, _pp. 260-5_, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.schres.2011.04.029, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21576009"
abstract = "Several lines of evidence indicate altered trafficking of alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA) receptors in schizophrenia. Previous reports have implicated alterations in the endosomal trafficking of AMPA receptors in this illness. We hypothesized that late endosome content of AMPA receptor subunits is altered in schizophrenia. Accordingly, we developed a technique to isolate and measure contents of late endosomes from postmortem human tissue. We found no changes in the expression of the AMPA subunits, GluR1-4, in late endosomes from the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia. We also hypothesized that proteins involved in the sorting and trafficking of AMPA receptors between endosomal compartments would be altered in schizophrenia. We found no changes in expression of multiple proteins associated with these processes (dynamin3, Arc/ARG3.1, NEEP21, GRASP1, liprin alpha, and syntaxin13). Together, these data suggest that endosomal trafficking of AMPA receptors in the prefrontal cortex may be largely intact in schizophrenia."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
