+++
title = "Identification of new drug treatments to combat COVID19: A signature-based approach using iLINCS"
date = "2020-07-24"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["S. M. O'Donovan", "H. Eby", "N. D. Henkel", "J. Creeden", "A. Imami", "S. Asah", "X. Zhang", "X. Wu", "R. Alnafisah", "R. T. Taylor", "J. Reigle", "A. Thorman", "B. Shamsaei", "J. Meller", "R. E. McCullumsmith"]
publication = "In: Res Sq, https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-25643/v1, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32702077"
abstract = "The COVID-19 pandemic caused by the novel SARS-CoV-2 is more contagious than other coronaviruses and has higher rates of mortality than influenza. As no vaccine or drugs are currently approved to specifically treat COVID-19, identification of effective therapeutics is crucial to treat the afflicted and limit disease spread. We deployed a bioinformatics workflow to identify candidate drugs for the treatment of COVID-19. Using an \"omics\" repository, the Library of Integrated Network-Based Cellular Signatures (LINCS), we simultaneously probed transcriptomic signatures of putative COVID-19 drugs and signatures of coronavirus-infected cell lines to identify therapeutics with concordant signatures and discordant signatures, respectively. Our findings include three FDA approved drugs that have established antiviral activity, including protein kinase inhibitors, providing a promising new category of candidates for COVID-19 interventions."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
