+++
title = "Identification of candidate repurposable drugs to combat COVID-19 using a signature-based approach"
date = "2021-02-26"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["S. M. O'Donovan", "A. Imami", "H. Eby", "N. D. Henkel", "J. F. Creeden", "S. Asah", "X. Zhang", "X. Wu", "R. Alnafisah", "R. T. Taylor", "J. Reigle", "A. Thorman", "B. Shamsaei", "J. Meller", "R. E. McCullumsmith"]
publication = "In: Sci Rep, (11), 1, _pp. 4495_, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-84044-9, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33627767"
abstract = "The COVID-19 pandemic caused by the novel SARS-CoV-2 is more contagious than other coronaviruses and has higher rates of mortality than influenza. Identification of effective therapeutics is a crucial tool to treat those infected with SARS-CoV-2 and limit the spread of this novel disease globally. We deployed a bioinformatics workflow to identify candidate drugs for the treatment of COVID-19. Using an \"omics\" repository, the Library of Integrated Network-Based Cellular Signatures (LINCS), we simultaneously probed transcriptomic signatures of putative COVID-19 drugs and publicly available SARS-CoV-2 infected cell lines to identify novel therapeutics. We identified a shortlist of 20 candidate drugs: 8 are already under trial for the treatment of COVID-19, the remaining 12 have antiviral properties and 6 have antiviral efficacy against coronaviruses specifically, in vitro. All candidate drugs are either FDA approved or are under investigation. Our candidate drug findings are discordant with (i.e., reverse) SARS-CoV-2 transcriptome signatures generated in vitro, and a subset are also identified in transcriptome signatures generated from COVID-19 patient samples, like the MEK inhibitor selumetinib. Overall, our findings provide additional support for drugs that are already being explored as therapeutic agents for the treatment of COVID-19 and identify promising novel targets that are worthy of further investigation."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
featured = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
